# Hybridized-Cryptographic-Encryption-and-Decryption-using-Symmetric-Techniques
The rapid growth of information exchange in recent times through the means of digital communication has led to major developments. This includes exchange of files, audio, classified information, images, videos and many more. Due to its heavy application in fields such as military and corporate workplaces, intruders try to intercept the communication through illegal means and gain access to the classified information. This can result in heavy losses if the leaked data is misused. Hence, an encryption system is required to encrypt and decrypt the data while being communicated so that it can be used by the intended parties only. Existing algorithms are purely symmetric and less dynamic, making it very insecure in today’s existing technology. This research proposes a hybridized algorithm incorporates features of Data Encryption Standard (DES) into Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) allowing it to be more dynamic and asymmetric. 



Keywords: Advanced Encryption Standard, Image encryption, Cryptography, Data Encryption Standard, 


We built a Hybrid Cryptography Algorithm with the idea of integrating AES into the fiestal architecture of DES, embracing advantages from either of the constituent standards. This results in a much more efficient and crack resistant hybrid encryption algorithm. It utilizes a 128-bit cipher key on a 256-bit plaintext to give rise to a ciphertext of 256 bits. This algorithm is more versatile, scalable, fast and reliable than other existing encryption algorithms. This kind of encryption is the best way to protect and secure the data put on cloud storage. Also, result shows that hybrid encryption scheme has a higher throughput in comparison to the traditional algorithms such as AES and DES. The hybrid algorithm is computationally more expensive than DES algorithm but less taxing than AES algorithm. In this algorithm the plaintext can be of any size there is no limit neither in input nor in output.
Future work can aim to investigate other suitable sub-processes. Image encryption method can be more optimised by using image data instead of bytes and working towards preventing loss of data while encrypting JPEG and PNG files.
